# BookShopAutomationSoftware

Introduction

Purpose 
The purpose of the document is to describe as to how to automate the various activities of a book shop.

Scope 
The Book Automation Software is basically to help the owner of the shop to maintain a database about the books in his shop, their prices, their availability etc. and generate receipts. The sales statistics generated by the system will help the owner to the exact business done over any period of time and also to determine inventory level required for various books. 

2. Overall Description 

2.1. Product Perspective: The Book Shop Automation Software is a tool for automating various activities in a book-shop which would need manual paper work otherwise. 

2.2: Product Functions:- 

2.2.2: Customers:- 
Query whether a book is in stock 
Enter full details of book for procurement if not in stock 
Purchase book from a list of available books 
Receive cash receipt on purchase of book 

2.2.3: Sales Clerks:-  
Handle customer requests and queries 
Enter ISBN number of book selected by customer 
Hand over purchased book to customer 
Generate cash receipt and hand it to the customer 

2.2.4: Shop Owner:- 
View requests of all books and estimate the demand 
Place orders for books that need to be procured 
View sales overall sales statistics to exact business done 
Determine inventory level required for various books 
Print the books which have fallen below the threshold and the number of copies to be procured along with full address of the publisher 

2.3. Operating Environment: The Book Shop Automation System is a web site that can be accessed through a modern web browser (ex: Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox). It will be only accessible on the local network of the book shop and authentication details will be required to gain access to the software. The server which handles all the requests is present on the same network.

2.4. User Characteristics: Users of the system are the customers, sales clerks and the shop owner.  Customers wish to purchase books and have no knowledge of the underlying software. Sales clerks interact with the customers and must have intermediate knowledge of the system. The shop owner views the overall sales and statistics.  
